
Issues with the Bible
Lack of Personal Experience
This first one is more personal than the other points but I believe it is still a valid one as it’s how I’ve felt about Christianity as I’ve grown up in the church. My personal experience with christianity was not something that I ever felt super strongly about. I heard all of these stories from other people who’ve had amazing experiences but I have never experienced anything. As I grew up things have always felt different than what other people talked about feeling. I started to look at things more critically and realized there were things that I disagreed with and things that I believe are unhealthy mentally about christianity. I did my best to follow everything that I was supposed to and yet instead of leaving me feeling fulfilled like I was supposed to I found that I felt empty.
Existence of evil
 The second reason I no longer believe is christianity is the Epicurean paradox. Essentially it comes down to three points below. There isn't too much to add here but it essentially comes down to god can’t truly be omnipotent like the bible claims because of these points
 If a god knows everything and has unlimited power, then it has knowledge of all evil and has the power to put an end to it. But if it does not end it, it is not completely benevolent.
If a god has unlimited power and is completely good, then it has the power to extinguish evil and wants to extinguish it. But if it does not do it, its knowledge of evil is limited, so it is not all-knowing.
If a god is all-knowing and totally good, then it knows of all the evil that exists and wants to change it. But if it does not, it must be because it is not capable of changing it, so it is not omnipotent.
- https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PXIg6Qs-aXc
After Life
There are many issues that I have with how christianity deals with the afterlife. The first one is how heaven will be. I understand that no one really knows but the descriptions that we have doesn’t sound pleasant at all. A constant worship service doesn’t sound enjoyable to me at all. Then there’s the other part about my issues with hell. Hell as a concept does not work with the idea that god is loving and forgiving. If god truly did love everyone then he wouldn’t send them to hell for eternity. The more I’ve looked into it the more the idea of hell being a fiery pit of torture doesn’t necessarily track which makes things less bad but the idea that a religion can be ok with that result regardless doesn’t feel right to me based on other teachings within the Bible. Regardless of the interpretation it feels like a lie to say that you can make your own choices because if you don’t sorry you’re gonna burn in hell for forever and same goes for if you’ve never heard of god in the first place.
- https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Zvw_EuT4_0I
Toxic Codependency
As I further examined the bible and went to therapy I began to realize just how unhealthy the relationship with god the bible preaches and says that we should have. The first example of this is how the bible preaches that one should put others before themselves. An example of this can be found in Philipians 2. On top of that it is constantly said in various forms that we need god to succeed in life and on our own we are nothing. A specific example of this can be the first couple of verses in John 15. This is an unbelievably unhealthy mindset. It’s a bit extreme but not unfair to say these same statements are constantly made by abusers. If you make the victim feel like they need you then they become reliant on you and feel like they can never leave. If god truly loved us when he created us, why wouldn’t he create us to be whole and not need to depend on him? Would this not lead to a better relationship between us and god? We could have a relationship with god because we want to, not because we need him to be happy and successful. The more I’ve learned about unhealthy relationships the more I’ve started to see the same patterns in the relationship the bible says we need to have with god. If the answer is he did make us perfect and it is only because of sin that we need him then that still doesn’t justify the end result. If god is the creator of everything then he is also where sin originated from. His decision to do nothing about it is again, him choosing to let it exist so that we must depend on him.
Testing from god
Throughout the bible there are various tests that disciples and other followers go through. Are these tests not irrelevant? It is said in the bible that god knows everything about us but this can’t be true based on the fact that he has these tests throughout the bible. If he truly knows us then he will know how we will react to the test and therefore knows the outcome of said test. This means he will intentionally set up people for failure. You could argue this is to allow growth and potentially exposes flaws. This is a fairly arrogant view of the world. It then has you view things in your life as tests. Bad things that happen around you are testing you and your faith when in reality they have nothing to do with you. In the end we can only control a certain percentage of things that happen, everything else is completely out of our control. One of the most well known tests that has always rubbed me the wrong way was the story of Job. Job gets praised for how faithful he is and how he doesn’t curse god but we completely ignore the fact that none of this had to happen in the first place. We see god volunteer Job to suffer and have all of these terrible things happen. Remember god is all knowing and all powerful so he would know what will happen. To prove a point to the devil god allowed Job to suffer. That doesn't seem like the actions of someone who loves someone else.
- James 1:2-4
- Also video above on Job
Biblical Errancy
The bible is a very old book and has gone through various translations and iterations throughout the years. There are even parts of the bible that we don’t use but at one time were included. This alone brings up questions of trusting the bible not even discussing the translation errors that exist in the bible. One of the most prominent examples of this is how the bible handles homosexuality and supposedly actively condemns it. However when you start to look at older versions of the bible there it becomes clear that the bible didn’t start using the word homosexual until 1983. This version in 1983 was created in Germany who has had the word for homosexual since 1862. If this is the case the Germans could’ve made the switch but they had always had bibles that talk about child molestation instead of homosexuality. When you look into it further you actually see this new version was sponsored by a company called Biblica, an American company, and influenced how the translations of specific parts were handled. This is clear manipulation of the meaning of texts to push an agenda. It is only one example, but because it has clearly happened once it is likely to have occurred in other places because after all man is flawed and inherently sinful.
- Why are you comparing to the German translation of the Bible? Shouldn't it be compared to the original text?
- https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UoxcCXBcC-Q
- Romans 1:24-27
	- Original text doesn't use the debated Greek term for sexual immorality, but clearly describes homosexuality as immoral
My beliefs
 Essentially I'm a hopeful agnostic. I don't believe that the christian god is real or any other god for that matter. I do believe that there is a potential for a god to exist but in the end it doesn't change how I live my life. I believe if I live my life trying to be a good person that that should be enough. It shouldn’t matter if I worship the correct god or say the correct prayers. If god does exist and is benevolent it doesn’t matter outside of being a good person to the people around you. If that isn’t then the god isn't truly benevolent and doesn’t deserve to be worshipped. It also means that spending eternity with said god wouldn’t be pleasant.
