How did the framers of the Constitution implement the idea of checks and balances in American government?

The framers of the Constitution had a great fear that the new government they were about to create would become powerful and tyrannical similar to King George III. In an effort to limit the power of the central government, they separated its powers into three different branches, with each branch having the power to limit the other two, thus creating a balance between the three separate powers. This system of checks and balances was put in place throughout the constitution, and its core idea was that for every power given to a branch of government, the other two branches were able to check that power and not let it get out of hand. For instance, the main role of the legislative branch is to create laws. However, the executive branch can veto these laws and the judicial branch can declare the laws unconstitutional. But even these checks are balanced once again, for the legislative branch can override a presidential veto with a 2/3 majority. There are many other examples of these checks of power described within the constitution, but this shows how balance is maintained throughout the governmental branches, and how the framers of the constitution thought very carefully of how to best balance the central government's branches so that one does not become too powerful.

Describe (and provide examples of) how Supreme Court cases can advance civil liberties in the US.

The role of the judicial branch and more specifically the supreme court, is to interpret the constitution and make sure that all actions of the executive and legislative branches adhere to the constitution. When the supreme court makes a ruling on an issue that has differing opinions in the lower courts, this ruling is regarded as a precedent which all lower courts are required to follow, guaranteeing that the law is applied equally to all. Therefore, when a ruling takes place concerning civil liberties, the supreme court's ruling can either advance civil liberties or take them away. One such ruling was in the case Kyollo v. United States. In summary, a man was found to be growing marijuana only through the use of thermal imaging. Kyollo stated that he believed his Fourth Amendment civil right of unreasonable search and seizure was being violated, and the supreme court stood with him in a 5-4 ruling. This then set an important precedent for civil liberties, for as technology and surveillance are becoming more advanced, it is important that citizens are protected by the Fourth Amendment against unreasonable search and seizures, especially those searches that could not be possible without these advanced devices. One other supreme court case which greatly affected civil liberty was in Miranda v. Arizona. Miranda was arrested and taken to a police station where he was interrogated by two police officers for two hours, resulting in a signed and written confession presented to the jury and securing his place in prison. The issue was whether his Fifth amendment rights of not being compelled to incriminate himself were being violated, and whether statements obtained from interrogations can be used against the accused in court. In a 5-4 ruling, the supreme court ruled that the statements made in interrogation cannot be used in court unless they were made under safeguards to secure the privilege against self-incrimination. This is where the famous Miranda Rights were created, stating that the defendant must be warned of his different rights. Although there are countless different supreme court cases which advanced civil liberties, these two cases clearly depict how the precedence created in these rulings are quite powerful in shaping the American liberties.

How does “venue shopping” work in the United States with respect to federalism? How does it affect the political process?

Describe the "iron triangle" model of interest groups and provide an example of an iron triangle of your own. 

What is the Electoral College? What are the benefits of it? What are the drawbacks of it?

The Electoral College is the process of voting for the president, outlined in Article II of the constitution. In general, the process goes as follows. In every state, each political party nominates a slate of electors. The qualified voters in each state then vote for a presidential candidate. Each state's winning presidential candidate's slate of electors are then appointed as electors. The number of electors per state equals the number of members of congress that state has, making a total of 538 electors. These electors then vote for a presidential candidate. A majority of 270 electoral votes is required to elect the president. One of the benefits of this unique election process is that it protects the interests of residents in states with lower populations due to the fact that the proportion of population to electoral votes in these urban states tends to be higher than that of more populated states. Another benefit is that this process of election maintains the representative structure of government in how a state's population is given the power to select their delegates for the Electoral College. However, one drawback of this voting method is that the president elected at the end of the process may not be the one with the popular vote across the whole United States, and the candidate who a majority of Americans voted for did not actually get elected. This occurred most recently in both the election of President Donald Trump and of President George W. Bush in 2000. Although there are many other examples of how the Electoral College system of voting has benefits and drawbacks, it has worked effectively in representing the citizens of the United States since it was first outlined.

What types of ways do Americans participate in politics? Can we identify any type of general pattern when it comes to political participation?

The number of ways that an American citizen can participate in politics is quite vast. The method which most typical Americans participate is through voting in local, state, and national elections. Another obvious way someone can participate in politics is to directly become part of it by running for a governmental office of some sort. People can also use various methods to spread their political opinion, thus participating in politics. For instance, one could wear a button or have a bumper sticker advocating a certain belief or political candidate. One could also participate in rallies and marches, boycotts, or other forms of protest in an effort to gain the attention of political leaders. To gain political influence or promote a certain political candidate, one might donate a sum of money to someone holding or trying to gain a political office. However, despite the virtually countless ways in which one can participate in politics in America, the country's population is tending towards less and less political participation. One explanation is that people have slowly gained a distrust in the government, or people believe that they have no say as to what the government does. Therefore, they see it as pointless to participate in politics. There were also studies which showed that younger generations are voting less and less, especially during midterm elections. This could possibly be the result of young people thinking that do not have much of a stake in society, and therefore, they are not affected as much. This trend of the younger generations is not unique only to America, but, according to the Economist Magazine, it was also seen in statistics Great Britain and France. Although it can clearly be seen how there is a multitude of possibilities in which an American can participate in politics, the general pattern in the United States is tending towards less participation rather than more.

Does the president generally have more success as a persuader or a facilitator? What does this mean for the president's capacity to affect the political system?

Although the president is given certain powers by the constitution such as appointing department heads and supreme court justices and declaring executive orders, he is still quite restrained, forcing him to be more of a persuader rather than a facilitator if he wants to have a larger political impact. One may believe that the president's ability to enact executive orders can, to a degree, match the power of legislation, giving him the ability to directly impact American politics and the country itself. One famous instance of this power being used was when President Lincoln signed the Emancipation Proclamation, declaring all slaves to be free. This executive order was clearly a strong piece of legislation. However, executive orders are still subject to judicial review, allowing the judicial branch to check this power and restrain the president's free reign. In general, the legislative and judicial branches often interrupt presidential actions if they feel the actions are unconstitutional or are politically unfavorable for themselves. As a result, if the president whishes to get anything done and move his policies forward, he must use his large political influence to persuade others. In summary, the system of checks and balances set in place forces the president to work together with the legislature and to use his persuasive powers to accomplish political goals and lead the country.

What is meant by the terms activist vs originalist/strict constructionist when it comes to judges in the US? Provide an example of each. How does the affect the US political system?

An activist judge is one who believes that the constitution was a document written years ago, outlining the basis of the US government and its foundational principles, but it wasn't specifically written to remain static and never change.  They believe that the constitution must be interpreted with the context of today's modern matters in society, and it is the job of the Supreme Court to do so. One example of an activist judge is Supreme Court Justice Stephen Breyer. On the other hand, originalists or strict constructionists believe that the constitution must be interpreted exactly how it was written years ago. This means that the Constitution doesn't necessarily need to be heeded word for word, but must be interpreted based on the original purpose and intentions of the founding fathers. One example of a strict constructionist is Supreme Justice Antonin Scalia. These two points of view concerning Supreme Court judges and their view of the constitution greatly affects the US political system because of the system of precedence. When the supreme court makes a ruling on an issue that has differing opinions, this ruling is regarded as a precedent which all lower courts are required to follow, guaranteeing that the law is applied equally to all. The Supreme Court produces this ruling based on their interpretation of the Constitution and how it specifically applies to the issue at hand. Therefore, it can easily be seen how the modern interpretation of the constitution is incredibly impactful upon these rulings, and in effect, the US political system.

Identify a few ways that members of Congress facilitate their reelection other than legislating. What might this mean for the political system as a whole?

2.

A more activist judge is one who believes the constitution is a living breathing document and will interpret our founders legislative intent with the sociological and political context of todays era. Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg is viewed as a more activist judge.

A more originalist judge will not include legislative intent outside of what the founders originally said, and therefore ignores modern sociological advances and sticks to a more strict literal interpretation of the constiution. Justice Anthony Scalia was more of a originalist judge.

This affects the political system in a significant way the two dichotomous view of interpreting the constituion places a significant value in the power to fill an empty supreme court seat. Since the two ideas are so opposing there is serious political clout for being able to nominate and confirm a justice who would interpret the constituion in the manner in which that aligns with your parties beliefs. For example, the current make up of our court consisted of 4 liberal/activist justices and 4 conservative/originalist justices with Justice Kennedy as the middle of the road independent justice. When Scalia died, the balance could have shifted towards a more liberal court were Obama able to confirm his nominee. However, since its such an important tool politically to have justices that will confirm your legislative changes, political parties lobbied hard to deny Obama that right so conservative president could step in and nominate, as we see today.

3.

A member of the legislatures prime job is to legislate. However, for reelection purposes their ability to legislate “good law” seems to matter less to the public. Reelection process generally takes place in the form of campaigning and advertisement, a popularity contests where a candidates likeability, and not merit, is the deciding factor in their election potential. This truth has turned our political process into a psuedorealtiy tv show where candidates are paraded around for likes, and public policy and facts are left to the way side. Getting commercial time, running attack ads, being in the perfect phot opportunity, and wearing the right clothes are the ways in which modern legislative candidates gain their reelection.

For the political system as a whole, this is a bad thing. As I mentioned above, the fact that a persons likeability, not merit, is the deciding factor for their candidacy means we will not have the best people doing the most important job in our country. When unqualified people get the final say on public policy matters it can result in serious deficiency our country cannot afford to take.